Openssh note (#760)
SUSE/doc-caasp: adoc/deployment-preparation.adoc

[[ssh.configuration]]
=== Basic SSH Key Configuration

> *In order to successfully deploy {productname}, you need to have an SSH agent.* This is important, because it is required in order to use the installation tools `skuba` and `terraform`.

Author: ```suggestion
*In order to successfully deploy {productname}, you need to have SSH keys loaded into an SSH agent.* This is important, because it is required in order to use the installation tools `skuba` and `terraform`.
```

[NOTE]
====
The use of `ssh-agent` comes with some implications for security that you should take into consideration.

link:http://rabexc.org/posts/pitfalls-of-ssh-agents[The pitfalls of using ssh-agent]

To avoid these risks please make sure to either use `ssh-agent -t <TIMEOUT>` and specify a time

> after which the agent will self-terminate or terminate the agent yourself before logging out by running `ssh-agent -k`.

Author: ```suggestion
after which the agent will self-terminate or terminate the agent yourself before logging out by running `ssh-agent -k`.,
```
My bad - I left out a comma which I think needs to be in there to indicate where the clauses are separated.

====

To log in to the created cluster nodes from the Management machine, you need to configure an SSH key pair.

> This key pair needs to be trusted by the user you will log in as into each cluster node; this user defaults to "sles".

Author: ```suggestion
This keypair needs to be trusted by the account you will log in with on each cluster node; this defaults to "sles".
```
Both yours and mine are a bit awkward.  How about this one? :D 

Related - do we use "account" or "user" or "username"?  Probably oughtta be consistent. :)

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure we mostly use "user", but I like "user account", so I would go with that :D and I also did a search for "key pair" and "keypair", it seems that the former us used more frequently, "keypair" is actually identified as a spelling mistake by my spellchecker.

Author: "Key Pair" as two words is how the openssh man page describes it, but usually they just say "key." So that'll be my answer as well going forward. :)  Good catch; referring to the pair is an an old habit of mine I should probably break.

`ssh-agent -k`.
====

To log in to the created cluster nodes from the Management machine, you need to configure an SSH key pair.
This key pair needs to be trusted by the user you will log in as upon each cluster node; this user defaults to
"sles".  In order to use the installation tools `terraform` and `skuba`, this trusted keypair also must be
loaded into the SSH agent.

. If you do not have an existing ssh keypair to use, run:
+
---
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
---

////

> // is this still accurate?

Reviewer: No idea, let's ask around. :)
